docs/platforms/mac/dev-setup.md, before:

---
summary: "Setup guide for developers working on the OpenClaw macOS app"
read_when:
  - Setting up the macOS development environment
---
# macOS Developer Setup

This guide covers the necessary steps to build and run the OpenClaw macOS application from source.

## Prerequisites

Before building the app, ensure you have the following installed:

1.  **Xcode 26.2+**: Required for Swift development.
2.  **Node.js 22+ & pnpm**: Required for the gateway, CLI, and packaging scripts.

## 1. Install Dependencies

Install the project-wide dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
```

## 2. Build and Package the App

To build the macOS app and package it into `dist/OpenClaw.app`, run:

```bash
./scripts/package-mac-app.sh
```

If you don't have an Apple Developer ID certificate, the script will automatically use **ad-hoc signing** (`-`). 

For dev run modes, signing flags, and Team ID troubleshooting, see the macOS app README:
https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/blob/main/apps/macos/README.md

> **Note**: Ad-hoc signed apps may trigger security prompts. If the app crashes immediately with "Abort trap 6", see the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

## 3. Install the CLI

The macOS app expects a global `openclaw` CLI install to manage background tasks.

**To install it (recommended):**
1.  Open the OpenClaw app.
2.  Go to the **General** settings tab.
3.  Click **"Install CLI"**.

Alternatively, install it manually:
```bash
npm install -g openclaw@<version>
```

## Troubleshooting

### Build Fails: Toolchain or SDK Mismatch
The macOS app build expects the latest macOS SDK and Swift 6.2 toolchain.

**System dependencies (required):**
- **Latest macOS version available in Software Update** (required by Xcode 26.2 SDKs)
- **Xcode 26.2** (Swift 6.2 toolchain)

**Checks:**
```bash
xcodebuild -version
xcrun swift --version
```

If versions don’t match, update macOS/Xcode and re-run the build.

### App Crashes on Permission Grant
If the app crashes when you try to allow **Speech Recognition** or **Microphone** access, it may be due to a corrupted TCC cache or signature mismatch.

**Fix:**
1. Reset the TCC permissions:
   ```bash
   tccutil reset All bot.molt.mac.debug
   ```
2. If that fails, change the `BUNDLE_ID` temporarily in [`scripts/package-mac-app.sh`](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/blob/main/scripts/package-mac-app.sh) to force a "clean slate" from macOS.

### Gateway "Starting..." indefinitely
If the gateway status stays on "Starting...", check if a zombie process is holding the port:

```bash
openclaw gateway status
openclaw gateway stop

# If you’re not using a LaunchAgent (dev mode / manual runs), find the listener:
lsof -nP -iTCP:18789 -sTCP:LISTEN
```
If a manual run is holding the port, stop that process (Ctrl+C). As a last resort, kill the PID you found above.

Commit message:

Update ad-hoc signing instructions in dev setup
Clarify instructions for using ad-hoc signing in the packaging script.
Without this flag, macos will report building failure.

docs/platforms/mac/dev-setup.md, after:

---
summary: "Setup guide for developers working on the OpenClaw macOS app"
read_when:
  - Setting up the macOS development environment
---
# macOS Developer Setup

This guide covers the necessary steps to build and run the OpenClaw macOS application from source.

## Prerequisites

Before building the app, ensure you have the following installed:

1.  **Xcode 26.2+**: Required for Swift development.
2.  **Node.js 22+ & pnpm**: Required for the gateway, CLI, and packaging scripts.

## 1. Install Dependencies

Install the project-wide dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
```

## 2. Build and Package the App

To build the macOS app and package it into `dist/OpenClaw.app`, run:

```bash
./scripts/package-mac-app.sh
```

If you don't have an Apple Developer ID certificate, run the following command, which will use **ad-hoc signing** (`-`). 

```bash
ALLOW_ADHOC_SIGNING=1 ./scripts/package-mac-app.sh
```

For dev run modes, signing flags, and Team ID troubleshooting, see the macOS app README:
https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/blob/main/apps/macos/README.md

> **Note**: Ad-hoc signed apps may trigger security prompts. If the app crashes immediately with "Abort trap 6", see the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

## 3. Install the CLI

The macOS app expects a global `openclaw` CLI install to manage background tasks.

**To install it (recommended):**
1.  Open the OpenClaw app.
2.  Go to the **General** settings tab.
3.  Click **"Install CLI"**.

Alternatively, install it manually:
```bash
npm install -g openclaw@<version>
```

## Troubleshooting

### Build Fails: Toolchain or SDK Mismatch
The macOS app build expects the latest macOS SDK and Swift 6.2 toolchain.

**System dependencies (required):**
- **Latest macOS version available in Software Update** (required by Xcode 26.2 SDKs)
- **Xcode 26.2** (Swift 6.2 toolchain)

**Checks:**
```bash
xcodebuild -version
xcrun swift --version
```

If versions don’t match, update macOS/Xcode and re-run the build.

### App Crashes on Permission Grant
If the app crashes when you try to allow **Speech Recognition** or **Microphone** access, it may be due to a corrupted TCC cache or signature mismatch.

**Fix:**
1. Reset the TCC permissions:
   ```bash
   tccutil reset All bot.molt.mac.debug
   ```
2. If that fails, change the `BUNDLE_ID` temporarily in [`scripts/package-mac-app.sh`](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/blob/main/scripts/package-mac-app.sh) to force a "clean slate" from macOS.

### Gateway "Starting..." indefinitely
If the gateway status stays on "Starting...", check if a zombie process is holding the port:

```bash
openclaw gateway status
openclaw gateway stop

# If you’re not using a LaunchAgent (dev mode / manual runs), find the listener:
lsof -nP -iTCP:18789 -sTCP:LISTEN
```
If a manual run is holding the port, stop that process (Ctrl+C). As a last resort, kill the PID you found above.
