docs/platforms/windows.md, before:

---
summary: "Windows (WSL2) support + companion app status"
read_when:
  - Installing Moltbot on Windows
  - Looking for Windows companion app status
---
# Windows (WSL2)

Moltbot on Windows is recommended **via WSL2** (Ubuntu recommended). The
CLI + Gateway run inside Linux, which keeps the runtime consistent and makes
tooling far more compatible (Node/Bun/pnpm, Linux binaries, skills). Native
Windows installs are untested and more problematic.

Native Windows companion apps are planned.

## Install (WSL2)
- [Getting Started](/start/getting-started) (use inside WSL)
- [Install & updates](/install/updating)
- Official WSL2 guide (Microsoft): https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/wsl/install

## Gateway
- [Gateway runbook](/gateway)
- [Configuration](/gateway/configuration)

## Gateway service install (CLI)

Inside WSL2:

```
moltbot onboard --install-daemon
```

Or:

```
moltbot gateway install
```

Or:

```
moltbot configure
```

Select **Gateway service** when prompted.

Repair/migrate:

```
moltbot doctor
```

## Advanced: expose WSL services over LAN (portproxy)

WSL has its own virtual network. If another machine needs to reach a service
running **inside WSL** (SSH, a local TTS server, or the Gateway), you must
forward a Windows port to the current WSL IP. The WSL IP changes after restarts,
so you may need to refresh the forwarding rule.

Example (PowerShell **as Administrator**):

```powershell
$Distro = "Ubuntu-24.04"
$ListenPort = 2222
$TargetPort = 22

$WslIp = (wsl -d $Distro -- hostname -I).Trim().Split(" ")[0]
if (-not $WslIp) { throw "WSL IP not found." }

netsh interface portproxy add v4tov4 listenaddress=0.0.0.0 listenport=$ListenPort `
  connectaddress=$WslIp connectport=$TargetPort
```

Allow the port through Windows Firewall (one-time):

```powershell
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "WSL SSH $ListenPort" -Direction Inbound `
  -Protocol TCP -LocalPort $ListenPort -Action Allow
```

Refresh the portproxy after WSL restarts:

```powershell
netsh interface portproxy delete v4tov4 listenport=$ListenPort listenaddress=0.0.0.0 | Out-Null
netsh interface portproxy add v4tov4 listenport=$ListenPort listenaddress=0.0.0.0 `
  connectaddress=$WslIp connectport=$TargetPort | Out-Null
```

Notes:
- SSH from another machine targets the **Windows host IP** (example: `ssh user@windows-host -p 2222`).
- Remote nodes must point at a **reachable** Gateway URL (not `127.0.0.1`); use
  `moltbot status --all` to confirm.
- Use `listenaddress=0.0.0.0` for LAN access; `127.0.0.1` keeps it local only.
- If you want this automatic, register a Scheduled Task to run the refresh
  step at login.

## Step-by-step WSL2 install

### 1) Install WSL2 + Ubuntu

Open PowerShell (Admin):

```powershell
wsl --install
# Or pick a distro explicitly:
wsl --list --online
wsl --install -d Ubuntu-24.04
```

Reboot if Windows asks.

### 2) Enable systemd (required for gateway install)

In your WSL terminal:

```bash
sudo tee /etc/wsl.conf >/dev/null <<'EOF'
[boot]
systemd=true
EOF
```

Then from PowerShell:

```powershell
wsl --shutdown
```

Re-open Ubuntu, then verify:

```bash
systemctl --user status
```

### 3) Install Moltbot (inside WSL)

Follow the Linux Getting Started flow inside WSL:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/moltbot/moltbot.git
cd moltbot
pnpm install
pnpm ui:build # auto-installs UI deps on first run
pnpm build
moltbot onboard
```

Full guide: [Getting Started](/start/getting-started)

## Windows companion app

We do not have a Windows companion app yet. Contributions are welcome if you want
contributions to make it happen.

Commit message:

Friendlier Windows onboarding message
Replace 'untested and more problematic' with a positive message
that highlights how well Clawdbot runs on WSL2 and gives users the
one command they need: wsl --install

Updates both the onboard CLI output and the Windows docs page.

docs/platforms/windows.md, after:

---
summary: "Windows (WSL2) support + companion app status"
read_when:
  - Installing Moltbot on Windows
  - Looking for Windows companion app status
---
# Windows (WSL2)

Moltbot on Windows is recommended **via WSL2** (Ubuntu recommended). The
CLI + Gateway run inside Linux, which keeps the runtime consistent and makes
tooling far more compatible (Node/Bun/pnpm, Linux binaries, skills). WSL2 gives
you the full Linux experience on Windows — one command to install: `wsl --install`.

Native Windows companion apps are planned.

## Install (WSL2)
- [Getting Started](/start/getting-started) (use inside WSL)
- [Install & updates](/install/updating)
- Official WSL2 guide (Microsoft): https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/wsl/install

## Gateway
- [Gateway runbook](/gateway)
- [Configuration](/gateway/configuration)

## Gateway service install (CLI)

Inside WSL2:

```
moltbot onboard --install-daemon
```

Or:

```
moltbot gateway install
```

Or:

```
moltbot configure
```

Select **Gateway service** when prompted.

Repair/migrate:

```
moltbot doctor
```

## Advanced: expose WSL services over LAN (portproxy)

WSL has its own virtual network. If another machine needs to reach a service
running **inside WSL** (SSH, a local TTS server, or the Gateway), you must
forward a Windows port to the current WSL IP. The WSL IP changes after restarts,
so you may need to refresh the forwarding rule.

Example (PowerShell **as Administrator**):

```powershell
$Distro = "Ubuntu-24.04"
$ListenPort = 2222
$TargetPort = 22

$WslIp = (wsl -d $Distro -- hostname -I).Trim().Split(" ")[0]
if (-not $WslIp) { throw "WSL IP not found." }

netsh interface portproxy add v4tov4 listenaddress=0.0.0.0 listenport=$ListenPort `
  connectaddress=$WslIp connectport=$TargetPort
```

Allow the port through Windows Firewall (one-time):

```powershell
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "WSL SSH $ListenPort" -Direction Inbound `
  -Protocol TCP -LocalPort $ListenPort -Action Allow
```

Refresh the portproxy after WSL restarts:

```powershell
netsh interface portproxy delete v4tov4 listenport=$ListenPort listenaddress=0.0.0.0 | Out-Null
netsh interface portproxy add v4tov4 listenport=$ListenPort listenaddress=0.0.0.0 `
  connectaddress=$WslIp connectport=$TargetPort | Out-Null
```

Notes:
- SSH from another machine targets the **Windows host IP** (example: `ssh user@windows-host -p 2222`).
- Remote nodes must point at a **reachable** Gateway URL (not `127.0.0.1`); use
  `moltbot status --all` to confirm.
- Use `listenaddress=0.0.0.0` for LAN access; `127.0.0.1` keeps it local only.
- If you want this automatic, register a Scheduled Task to run the refresh
  step at login.

## Step-by-step WSL2 install

### 1) Install WSL2 + Ubuntu

Open PowerShell (Admin):

```powershell
wsl --install
# Or pick a distro explicitly:
wsl --list --online
wsl --install -d Ubuntu-24.04
```

Reboot if Windows asks.

### 2) Enable systemd (required for gateway install)

In your WSL terminal:

```bash
sudo tee /etc/wsl.conf >/dev/null <<'EOF'
[boot]
systemd=true
EOF
```

Then from PowerShell:

```powershell
wsl --shutdown
```

Re-open Ubuntu, then verify:

```bash
systemctl --user status
```

### 3) Install Moltbot (inside WSL)

Follow the Linux Getting Started flow inside WSL:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/moltbot/moltbot.git
cd moltbot
pnpm install
pnpm ui:build # auto-installs UI deps on first run
pnpm build
moltbot onboard
```

Full guide: [Getting Started](/start/getting-started)

## Windows companion app

We do not have a Windows companion app yet. Contributions are welcome if you want
contributions to make it happen.
